---
layout: post
title: '#12in23'
date: 2023-01-22 13:41 +0000
author: yaasky
category: blog
description: Exercism challenge.
image:
locale: en-GB
tag:
- programming
- challenge
- 12in23
---

A decade ago, in the year of our Lord 2013 — time flies! — I took on a challenge to learn [seven languages in seven weeks][3]. It was an interesting time because learning these languages meant seeking out projects to build with them, hitting roadblocks, fearing, failing, figuring things out, and finally… flying. The languages I chose were Prolog, Io, Haskell, Clojure, Elixir, Erlang, and Mercury. It was as yolo as yolo can get: no learning frameworks, no guides; just raw imagination, commitment, and grit. I could get through six of the seven weeks. Mercury, apparently, was too new at the time. After these six weeks, I began seeing programming as a craft which must be perfected; not just something to do. Obviously, what's a melted mind to do besides consolidate and solidify? That's what I did.

A decade later, [Exercism.io][1] announces a challenge to learn 12 languages through the 12 months in 2023. The sweet nostalgia! I obviously [jumped on it][4] and [have already begun][2]! The languages these time around are not as far-fetched as before: Vimscript, Clojure, Rust, Julia, Bash, Crystal, WebAssembly, Elixir, F#, Awk, Dart. As you can see, there are two familiar languages here: Clojure and Elixir. These were interesting languages. I'll be refreshing my memory here. The other two familiars are Rust and Crystal — I may just swap these out for more esoteric languages — I've worked with these, but they're just interesting to write.

In this blog series, I'll be compiling what I've learned from trying each of the languages. — starting with [Vimscript][5].

  [1]: https://exercism.io
  [2]: https://github.com/igbanam/exercism
  [3]: https://github.com/igbanam/7L7W
  [4]: https://twitter.com/Yaasky/status/1616224266088767488
  [5]: /vimscript-12in23
